Defining priorities.
Now we need to set priorities.
Why?
Because no IT team ever seems to have enough resources to get everything
completed that it is asked to do in the time required.
And it is to crucial to your success and your team's
morale to have good solid priorities.
So when you're out getting the business goals and
requirements from your customers,
you will also need to be getting their priorities,
don't forget to do that.
So how do you quantify a priority?
Let's find out.
As I mentioned,
while you are talking with your new customers as the new manager of your team,
you are not only talking about the business issues and requirements,
but also how each one fits importance wise relative to each other.
So what are your priorities, you're going to ask.
Now a heads up, when you ask that question,
what are your priorities,
they will probably answer well everything or everything's a number one.
Now you and I know not everything can be a number one.
If you scatter your resources across all the items,
you'll probably not get anything done at all.
So here are a few approaches to determining priorities.
Approaches to determining priorities,
you will likely be getting your assignments,
direction, requirements, and priorities from a variety of places in your company.
One may be business leaders, they may be CEOs,
CFOs, CIOs or for example the VP of engineering or of manufacturing.
Another entity may be a steering group.
This may be a collection of two or more of the above that I mentioned or other
representatives that get together maybe monthly or quarterly to set priorities
and/or drive requirements for you and your team.
It may also be a business focal point.
Maybe a manager of customer service has provided you the requirements
and priorities you need for a particular project.
It may also be your manager,
you may get most requirements possibly from him or her based on
how you may have structured your work intake.
Also, end users,
you may get calls from end users or representatives of end users
from existing applications or with new projects.
Or maybe even IT decides, IT management itself determines what it needs to do.
In some cases this is just fine, but don't let it go to your head,
you should always validate what the IT leadership
determined as viable work with one or more of the
appropriate customers shown on the slide.
Next, developers decide.
This is really the worst thing you can do.
It is not to say that developers will do the best they can do,
of course, but it is the business that must decide.
Also I want to talk about influence, how the priorities are influenced.
Notice I went from top to bottom, more influence to less influence.
Business leaders, steering group, et cetera,
they provide more influence, they are influential in the company.
The developer or maybe part of IT or end users are typically less influential.
You may get your requirements from one or more of these I've listed on the page.
But keep in mind the appropriate influence each of them
may have in making your priorities.
Priorities are hard to determine and hard to come by,
that's why I've shown this list to help you decide,
you know, one end user asking for something is not the influencer,
the CFO or a business leader is the influencer,
that's who you want to get your priorities from.
And lastly, when I say the business drives the requirements and priorities,
that is true,
but not in a vacuum This is done in collaboration with you and
your team providing insights into your resources,
timing, cost, other projects, technology certainly,
so that hopefully what you do is best for the company and your team.
Remember for each goal you will track the source of that requirement and
what the priority of that requirement is to keep track of,
who is driving that priority.
So you can provide feedback to other people saying hey,
so I have this requirement or that requirement and the
priorities are driven by these particular entities.
You may get some very challenging priorities and think - you want it when?
Okay, they may be vague, like do what's best.
This is just not acceptable to me.
That is management advocating their responsibility.
You might think you know what is best,
but that really is the job of the business.
Next, they may be very high level, I call these macro priorities.
An example might be improve customer service.
Less vague certainly,
but definitely not very specific for you to make action upon.
Next, business unit.
An example might be something like prioritize all work in the company to
focus on the engineering and new product development only.
Well that is better and easier to align your work to.
Next specific projects, even easier.
The company may have itemized five key projects,
that would tell you that all your resources should be focused
only on those five projects and nothing else.
Very easy to prioritize your work.
Next, operations or production, to me this is always job number one.
If a system goes down and we have a production failure,
well it's all hands on deck to resolve.
Alright, so with this list of the forms of different priority types,
if you will, or forms of priority,
they range from somewhat vague and fuzzy to pretty specific.
And for me, and maybe for you too,
the more specific you can articulate the importance of an area of
business the easier it is for work to be aligned to it.
So remember that for yourself as well as a manager.
If you give vague or macro priorities to your team members,
they will not be as effective or productive. Okay, now let's look at a technique for setting priorities.